= shastity user's manual

NOTE: This is a work-in-progress. shastity has not yet been released
with the intent to be used by end-users, and this manual is not useful
yet.

== Introduction

shastity is a command line based backup software which provides the
ability to backup local file system contents to a variety of storage
backends. It is specifically designed to play well with eentually
consistent storage such as Amazon S3. It also supports encryption
(hence the name) of backed up data to allow for backups to
semi-trusted or untrusted storage. All backed up file conents is
stored in a block-wise fashion with hash-based de-duplication.

Just to give a quick couple of examples, in the simplest of cases,
backing up all of /home/username to a directory
/mnt/backup/home_username is as simple as:

  shastity persist /home/username dir:/mnt/backup/home_username

Or if you prefer to backup to the Amazon S3 service:

  shastity persist /home/username s3:bucket.base.name

(the S3 example requires appropriate AWS authentication information to
be present in environment variables or the shastity configuration).

This user manual will attempt to document shastity with a fair bit of
completeness, such that a reasonably experienced Unix admin can not
only use shastity, but understand the fundamental concepts and its
storage model.

Reasonable documentation, especially of backup tools, is important. If
you feel sections of this manual are incomplete or unclear, please do
file a bug (TODO: explain how). The target audience is that of people
with some reasonable level of experience with Unix-like operating
systems (working at the command line and editing configuration files)>

== Understanding the storage model

This section is not strictly necessary to use shastity. If you just
want to get it running to try it ASAP, you may want to skip this
section and return to it later. It is however highly recommended that
this section be read before using shastity in a production
environment.
